

===== PAGE 1 =====

Executive Summary
Strengths: The  paper  addresses  a  timely  problem  (power  allocation  in  integrated  sensing  and
communication,  ISAC)  and  evaluates  multiple  solution  strategies.  The  comparative  study  of  seven
optimization algorithms (SLSQP , PSO, DE, SA, SFO, POA, GWO) is thorough and demonstrates empirical
performance  differences.  The  experiments  under  dynamic  CSI  provide  valuable  data,  and  the  authors
identify that GWO outperforms others in this setting.  Weaknesses: However , the work lacks  novelty: it
applies  known  algorithms  rather  than  developing  new  techniques.  Key  methodological  analyses  are
missing: the multi-objective nature of ISAC (sensing vs. communication) is oversimplified via a weighted
sum without exploring the full Pareto trade-off. Channel modeling is simplistic (no standardized models),
limiting  realism.  Theoretical  justification  is  thin:  convergence  or  complexity  of  the  algorithms  are  not
analyzed.  Experimental  rigor  is  incomplete  (no  statistical  significance  tests,  limited  baselines,  missing
ablations). The writing needs polish (many AI-like phrases and structural issues). Overall, the paper would
benefit  from  deeper  theoretical  grounding,  expanded  experiments  (with  realistic  channels  and  multi-
objective analysis), and clarity in contributions.
Detailed Critique by Section
Title & Abstract: The title “Efficient Power Allocation for ISAC Systems Using Nature-Inspired Meta-Heuristic
Optimization”  is  descriptive  but  oversells  “efficient”  without  evidence  or  definition.  It  suggests  a  novel
scheme,  yet  the  paper  merely  compares  existing  algorithms.  Consider  a  more  neutral  title  (e.g.
“Comparative  Study  of  Metaheuristics  for  ISAC  Power  Allocation”).  The  abstract  succinctly  states  the
problem (dynamic power allocation in ISAC) and lists results, but it  omits key details: it does not clearly
state the multi-objective nature (trade-off between sensing and communication) nor what is new about the
study. It reads as generic (“address the problem … through this paper”) and lacks mention of limitations. It
should briefly state the novelty (e.g. empirical comparison, identification of GWO’s robustness) and quantify
improvements with statistical confidence. Also, the sentence “we identify GWO as the optimal algorithm for
practical ISAC” is too strong without qualification (optimal in what sense? only in this setup). 
Introduction: The introduction should motivate ISAC by citing foundational works and clarifying the dual
objectives.  While  it  mentions  integrated  sensing  and  communications,  it  omits  standard  context  like
“integration gain” and “coordination gain”. For example, ComSoc explains that ISAC merges radar and
comm  to  share  spectrum/hardware  and  enable  dual  goals  (data  rate  vs.  sensing  accuracy).  The
introduction should reference key surveys (e.g. Liu  et al., IEEE JSAC 2022) that discuss the fundamental
sensing–communication  trade-offs.  The  authors  should  explicitly  define  the  trade-off:  maximizing
communication rate usually conflicts with sensing precision. The current text lacks clear references to
these  ideas.  The  contributions  should  be  stated  as  bullet  points.  Currently,  the  intro  vaguely  claims  a
“dynamic  allocation  under  time-varying  CSI”  but  does  not  explain  why  existing  methods  fail  or  why
metaheuristics are warranted. It should cite [38] that power allocation problems are generally NP-hard in
wireless networks, justifying heuristic methods.
1
1
2
3
1

===== PAGE 2 =====

Related  Work: This  section  covers  some  ISAC  and  metaheuristic  literature,  but  it’s  incomplete  and
unfocused. It cites Liu  et al. [1] (probably a survey on ISAC trade-offs) but does not reference other key
works (e.g. Zhang et al. on waveform design, Yu et al., etc.). It lacks mention of multi-objective optimization
research in ISAC, which is crucial. For instance, recent works use Pareto analysis to characterize ISAC trade-
offs ; such citations are missing. The metaheuristic discussion (Section 2.2) lists algorithms but does not
critically assess past uses of metaheuristics in wireless systems. For example, Sun  et al. (2022) compare
metaheuristics for power control in massive MIMO and note the NP-hardness of the problem. The
Related Work should align with the formulation: it should discuss prior studies that used weighted-sum vs.
Pareto approaches in ISAC. It should also identify gaps – for example, if no one has yet evaluated GWO in
ISAC context, that could be a novelty point, but the paper doesn’t claim or verify that. Instead, it only lists
algorithms without depth. Reviewer feedback likely suggested adding multi-objective and realistic channel
references, which should be addressed here.
Problem Formulation: The optimization problem is stated mathematically, but clarity is needed. The multi-
objective  nature  is  compressed  into  a  weighted-sum  “objective  function”  (Eq.  4):  maximize  
. This scalarization hides the true trade-off. The formulation should
clearly  identify  the  two  objectives   and   and  note  constraints  (power  budget,
positivity).  The  choice  of  a  linear  combination  with  a  tunable  weight   implies  a  Pareto  optimization
problem. The authors should discuss under what assumption weighted sums capture the Pareto front, and
note  that  non-convexity can  make  this  insufficient  (some  Pareto  points  may  not  be  found  by  simple
weighting) .  The  constraints  (e.g.  total  power  ,  per-subcarrier  max,  etc.)  must  be
explicitly stated and physically motivated. If the SNR of the sensing channel uses a logarithmic form, that
should be justified (why ?). Variables like  and  need context (is  fixed or varied? How is  chosen?).
Clarify any assumptions about CSI dynamics (e.g. discrete time slots indexed by  ). Any system model
(channel fading distribution, noise power) should be defined here or in a separate model section, not left
implicit.
Methodology: The section describes the use of seven optimization algorithms. However , it should include
either a succinct description or a reference for each algorithm, and detail any modifications made. For a
peer review, the methods should be reproducible: the algorithm parameters (population size, number of
iterations,  inertia  weights,  crossover  rates,  etc.)  must  be  listed  or  tabulated.  If  a  library  or  prior
implementation is used, cite it. The pseudo-code of GWO (Fig.1) is helpful, but more explanation is needed:
e.g. how are  wolves updated? How is convergence checked? The step “update all wolves using the
three  best  solution  vectors”  in  the  GWO  description  needs  elaboration  (is  it  like  the  original  Mirjalili
formulation?). Similarly, the other algorithms (SLSQP , SA, SFO, POA) are not described at all; at least cite
standard references or provide key equations. Importantly, since no new algorithm is proposed, the novelty
must come from how these are applied. The authors should explain any computational tricks (parallel runs,
random seeds). A common pitfall is failing to compare all methods on equal footing; make sure iteration
counts or function evaluations are aligned. 
Experiments: The experimental setup is under-specified. It must detail the system parameters (number of
subcarriers  , channel bandwidth, noise power , mobility model, CSI update rate, etc.). The current text
hints  at  dynamic  CSI  but  gives  no  model  (is  fading  Rayleigh?  How  quickly  does  it  change?  Path  loss
exponent?). Use of realistic, standardized channel models is strongly recommended. For instance, 3GPP TR
38.901 provides detailed models for urban micro (UMi), urban macro (UMa), rural macro (RMa), indoors, etc
. The simulation should specify whether it uses UMi NLOS or UMa LOS etc., with citation. ITU models
(e.g. ITU-R M.2135) or WINNER II scenarios (e.g. A1/A2 indoor , B1-B3 outdoor) are alternative choices.
2
3
f(p) =
αR +comm (1−α)γlog (SNR )10 sense
R (p)comm SNR (p)sense
α
2 4 p ≤∑n n P 
max
log 
10 α γ α γ
t
α,β,δ
N
5
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

Table 1 below compares a few recommended models, their environments and key parameters. Without a
standardized model, the results may not reflect realistic performance. The authors should also include
baseline  schemes  beyond  SLSQP:  for  example,  a  multi-objective  algorithm (NSGA-II  or  MOPSO)  to
compute a true Pareto front as a reference, or a simple heuristic like water-filling for the communication or
fixed allocation for sensing. Metrics should include not only the combined objective but also separate
communication rate and sensing metrics (e.g. detection probability or CRB if available). Statistical rigor is
needed: run each algorithm over many random seeds and report mean±std (as Sun et al. did with 20 trials
), and perform significance tests to assert when differences are meaningful. Ablation studies should
vary  hyperparameters  (population  size,  inertia  weight,  learning  factors)  to  show  robustness.
Hyperparameter sweeps (e.g. on PSO’s inertia) and a reproducibility checklist (listing all settings, random
seeds) are essential. 
Results and Discussion: The results (Figures 2–4, Table 1, etc.) show performance trends but lack error bars
or confidence intervals. We recommend boxplots or confidence intervals for metrics like rate and SNR to
visualize variability. The statement “GWO achieves 15–18% superior performance” should be backed by
statistical evidence (e.g. p-values). The discussion attributes GWO’s success to “balanced exploitation” and
“efficient subcarrier selection,” but these claims need references or analysis (e.g. gradient analysis of the
objective).  A  common  pitfall  is  confirmation  bias:  ensure  that  why GWO  excels  is  not  just  subjective.
Compare with literature: e.g. have others found GWO effective in resource allocation problems? If so, cite
relevant studies. The explanation should tie back to algorithm behavior: perhaps GWO’s leadership update
yields more directed search, as Mirjalili noted. The results section should explicitly mention any Pareto
curves (if computed), or at least note how varying  affects the trade-off (which is not shown at all). The
analysis of dynamic tracking speed is interesting but should be supported by more data (e.g. quantify
“adaptation speed” metrics). If space allows, add plots of communication-rate vs. sensing-SNR for different
 (the Pareto front). 
Theoretical Analysis (Convergence & Complexity): The manuscript currently lacks theoretical support. For
credibility, each algorithm’s properties should be outlined. For example,  SLSQP (a quasi-Newton method)
has local convergence guarantees under smoothness and convexity assumptions (in particular , it converges
to a local optimum of the Lagrangian if the objective is concave). PSO’s convergence is subtle: Clerc &
Kennedy (2002) showed that under certain parameter settings the velocity stagnates and particles converge
to a point, but not necessarily the global optimum. The cited study uses fixed-point theory to prove
PSO converges to a unique fixed point (depending on parameters). Similar analyses can be cited or outlined
for DE, SA, etc.: for instance,  Simulated Annealing has a classical proof that with a logarithmically slow
cooling schedule it converges to the global optimum (but this is impractically slow). It would strengthen the
paper to sketch these proofs or cite them: e.g., “PSO can be shown to converge (in expectation) under stable
parameter settings,” and “SA converges to a global optimum in the infinite-time limit if  slowly
.” Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) has no standard proof in the literature; note this as a limitation (e.g. see
Mirjalili’s original GWO paper for lack of formal proof). 
Complexity analysis should be given in Big-O terms. For each algorithm:
- SLSQP: Each iteration involves solving a Quadratic Program (roughly  per iteration for  variables)
plus gradient evaluation.
-  PSO/DE/GWO/SA/etc.: These population-based metaheuristics cost  , where   is iterations,
 population size, and  number of decision variables (subcarriers). For example, if , , 
, then operations are on the order of  simple evaluations. Provide a formula like  for each,
and estimate actual runtime if known. Common pitfalls include neglecting the cost of objective evaluation:
6
α
α
7
7 7
7 T →0
4
O(d )3 d
O(T ⋅ N⋅ d) T
N d d=20 N=50 T =
1000 106 O(TNd)
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

here, computing  and  involves summing over subcarriers (another  step inside
each evaluation). 
Outline proof sketches or conditions (in bullet form): e.g.,
- SLSQP: Converges to a stationary point if  and  are twice differentiable and the Hessian is
Lipschitz. (This typically holds here, but the weighted sum is not concave so multiple local optima exist.)
- PSO: Under constriction factor or cognitive/social coefficient settings (Kennedy & Clerc, 2002), the particle
velocities decrease to zero, implying convergence to a point. The fixed point is found by solving 
 (analyzing stability).
- SA: If the temperature schedule  satisfies  (e.g. ), then SA
converges with probability 1 to a global optimum (classical result). Common pitfall: using a too-fast cooling
schedule loses this guarantee.
-  DE, SFO, POA: Briefly mention that no simple global convergence proof exists; they are heuristics. The
reader should be warned they may stall or require tuning. 
These outlines should be summarized in text or in a small box with formulas. For instance, note the key
Kuhn–Tucker conditions for Pareto optimality:
where  is the Lagrange multiplier for the power sum constraint. One could explicitly derive 
and , leading to a “water-filling”-like condition. Presenting these formulas (with
appropriate assumptions) will greatly strengthen the theoretical backing.
Conclusion: The current conclusion reiterates results but misses a critical reflection. It should highlight the
lessons learned (e.g. GWO’s robustness, general recommendations for ISAC) and limitations/future work
(lack  of  Pareto  analysis,  simplifications,  need  for  convergence  proof).  The  statement  “metaheuristic
algorithms have good generalization abilities with simulated networks” is vague; better to qualify in
what sense. Also, if future work is to study heterogeneous networks, that might be beyond the paper’s
scope – focus on more immediate next steps (like addressing the identified gaps). 
Novelty and Research Directions
Novelty gaps: The main novelty claim is weak: the paper does not propose a new algorithm or theoretical
result, only applies existing methods. To convert this into original contributions: 
Pareto-analysis contribution: Treat the sensing–comm trade-off as a bi-objective problem.
Compute and analyze the Pareto frontier explicitly (e.g. using NSGA-II or by sweeping ). This itself
can be a novel insight for ISAC, illustrating the full trade-off curve rather than a single operating
point . 
New formulations: Instead of a fixed-weight sum, consider alternative multi-objective techniques
(e.g. multi-objective DE) and report how different allocations shift resource to sensing vs comm. For
example, incorporate a constraint like “maximize comm rate subject to a minimum sensing SNR” and
solve via convex or global methods, adding a new angle. 
R (p)comm SNR (p)sense O(d)
R 
comm log(SNR)
7 x=
(ω+ϕ)x−ϕx∗
T 
k 1/exp(ΔE/T ) =∑ k ∞ T =k T /log(1+0 k)
α∇f (p)+1 (1−α)∇f (p)+2 λ1=0,
λ ∇f =1 ∑n ∂p 
n
∂R
∇f =2 
ln10
γ
∂p 
n
∂logSNR
8
• 
α
2
• 
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

Hybrid or novel algorithms: If GWO is found superior , investigate why and possibly propose a
hybrid algorithm (e.g. PSO+GWO or adding domain-specific heuristics). Alternatively, consider
machine-learning-driven allocation (deep RL) as a contrasting approach for further study (though
this would be future work, not in this paper). 
Theoretical extensions: Provide convergence guarantees for a simplified case (e.g. prove that
SLSQP converges for the convex relaxation of the problem, or derive closed-form best response in
the single-user case). Or derive a mathematical expression for the optimal power allocation in an
extreme case (e.g.  reduces to water-filling,  to full-power-everywhere sensing). 
New experiments: Propose experiments under varying CSI dynamics (e.g. different Doppler
spreads), different sensing tasks (target number , different SNR definitions), and sensitivity to model
mismatch. For example, add “transmit beamforming vs omnidirectional” to see geometry effects. 
Multi-stage ISAC: Suggest extending to a scenario where sensing informs subsequent comm
adaptation, which could be a direction beyond static allocation. 
Summarized research directions (as an ordered list):
1.  Pareto Frontier Mapping: Implement multi-objective optimization (e.g. NSGA-II) to map the rate-SNR
Pareto frontier . Analyze shape (convex vs. nonconvex) and identify regimes.
2.  Algorithmic Innovation: Explore hybrids or parameter-adaptive versions of GWO/PSO tuned for ISAC
(e.g. dynamic weight adjustment between communication and sensing goals within the algorithm).
3.  Extended ISAC Models: Incorporate more realistic sensing models (e.g. probabilistic detection metrics
instead of SNR) and optimize for those; design waveform co-optimization (power  and waveform or beam
pattern).
4. Theoretical Analysis: Attempt closed-form solutions or bounds for special cases (e.g. single-subcarrier ,
high-SNR regime) to benchmark the heuristics.
5. Experimental Scenarios: Evaluate in multi-user settings (different users with conflicting objectives), or
under partial CSI (imperfect knowledge), to extend realism. 
Methodological Issues and Pareto Analysis
A key omission is the Pareto (multi-objective) perspective. ISAC inherently involves a trade-off: improving
communication rate often degrades sensing accuracy, and vice versa. A proper Pareto analysis would
treat the two objectives explicitly, rather than fixing an arbitrary weight . Why it matters: The Pareto front
(or Pareto frontier) is the set of allocations where no objective can improve without worsening the other
. By mapping this frontier , one reveals the full performance region and informs system designers of
possible trade-offs. For example, is GWO’s advantage only at one point on this front, or across it?
Performing Pareto analysis:
1.  Formulate as a Bi-Objective Problem: Let   and  . The multi-
objective problem is to simultaneously maximize subject to .
2.  Weighted Sum (Convex Hull approach): Solve   for a range of  . Each
solution  ideally lies on the Pareto front. Vary  in steps (e.g. 0, 0.1, …, 1) and plot  points.
However , note weighted-sum only finds the  convex hull of the Pareto set; non-convex regions may be
missed.
3.  Multi-Objective Algorithm: Use a true multi-objective EA (e.g. NSGA-II or MOEA/D) that maintains a
population along the Pareto front. These find diverse Pareto-optimal solutions without scalarization.
4. KKT Conditions: For analytic insight, use Lagrange multipliers: at a Pareto-optimal , there exists 
• 
• 
α=1 α=0
• 
• 
2 4
2
α
4
f (p) =1 R (p)comm f (p) =2 SNR (p)sense
(f ,f )1 2 p ≤∑ n P 
max
max αf +p 1 (1−α)f 
2 α∈[0,1]
p (α)∗ 2 α (f ,f )1 2
p α∈
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

 and  such that
plus complementary slackness on the power sum constraint. (This equation comes from stationarity of the
weighted objective plus .) From this, one can derive allocation formulas. For example, if 
 and , then setting gradients equal yields
(up to the constant ). Solving this set of equations (subject to ) gives the Pareto-optimal
allocation for that . This explicit condition can guide algorithm design or sanity-check solutions. 
Include a step-by-step algorithm for Pareto computation: 
ParetoFrontComputation():
    inputs: channel profiles {h_n},{g_n}, total power P_max, number of weights K
    outputs: set of Pareto-optimal points (R,SNR)
    for k = 0..K:
        α = k/K
        solve maximize α * R_comm(p) + (1-α)*SNR_sense(p) 
                subject to sum p_n <= P_max, p_n>=0
        record (R_comm, SNR_sense) at solution
    end
    // Optionally refine with multi-objective EA to catch nonconvex cases
    return list of (R,SNR) points
Citations: Pareto front methods are standard in multi-objective optimization. By performing this
analysis, the authors would not only validate the single-weight results but also demonstrate the entire
achievable region, turning comparisons into an original contribution. 
Channel Models and Simulation Realism
The current simulations lack specification of channel models, which is critical. Using standardized channel
models ensures credibility and comparability. We recommend the following: 
Model Scenario Key Features/Parameters Reference
3GPP UMi
NLOS
Urban microcell,
non-LOS
Path loss ~22log10(d)+..., up to 500 ns
delay spread, Doppler ~300 Hz at 120 km/
h
3GPP TR 38.901
(0,1) λ≥0
α∇f (p)+1 (1−α)∇f (p) =2 λ1,
λ( p −∑ n P )max
f =1 log(1+∑n h p )n n f =2 log(1+∑n g p )n n
 =1+h p 
n n
αh 
n for each n1+g p 
n n
(1−α)g 
n
λ p =∑ n P 
max
α
2 4
5
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

Model Scenario Key Features/Parameters Reference
3GPP UMa
LOS/NLOS
Urban macro, cell-
edge & LOS
Path loss formula includes base station
height, delay spread ~1000 ns, etc.3GPP TR 38.901
WINNER II
A1
Indoor office, static/
mobile
Clustered delay lines, delay spread ~100
ns, moderate Doppler; widely used for
indoor MIMO
WINNER II
deliverable D1.1
WINNER II
B1/B3
Urban (street
canyon) LOS/NLOS
Rich multipath, Doppler for vehicular
speeds, support smooth time variation.
WINNER II
models
ITU-R PedA/
B
Pedestrian (low
speed) indoor/
outdoor
Legacy models (e.g. M.1225), simpler path
loss/fading (e.g., Rayleigh), Doppler ~10
Hz.
ITU-R M.1225,
Rec. M.2135
Table 1: Standardized channel models suitable for ISAC simulations.
Each  simulation  scenario  should  specify  parameters  (carrier  freq,  user  speed,  antenna  heights).  For
example, for an outdoor cellular scenario, use 3GPP UMi NLOS at 3.5 GHz, UE speed 30 km/h (Doppler ~100
Hz). For indoor target detection, use WINNER II A1 with pedestrian speed (Doppler ~10 Hz). Cite 3GPP TR
38.901 and WINNER II descriptions as above. Without such realism, results are inconclusive.
Theoretical Backing: Proof Sketches and
Complexity
A rigorous submission should either include or outline the following proofs and analyses: 
Convergence of each algorithm: As discussed above, cite or outline convergence conditions. For
instance: PSO converges under the constriction factor model; SLSQP converges locally under
smoothness (cite a numerical optimization text); Simulated Annealing converges globally with slow
cooling (cite classic textbooks, e.g. van Laarhoven & Aarts). Highlight any assumptions needed: e.g.,
objective continuity, boundedness. Also warn of pitfalls: PSO may converge prematurely if  is too
low; SA may require too many iterations; no guarantee for DE/GWO in general. 
Complexity analysis: Provide formulas for computational cost. For example: “Each PSO iteration
updates   particles,  each  with   variables.  Velocity  update  is  ,  and  evaluating  both
objectives per particle is , so total . Over  iterations this is . Similarly, DE/
POA/SFO  are  .  SLSQP’s  per-iteration  cost  is  dominated  by  solving  a   QP ,  roughly
. Tabulate these (see Table 2).” Also include  complexity of convergence: e.g. if SLSQP uses
second-order  information,  each  iteration  might  be  expensive  but  often  converges  in  ~50–100
iterations for this problem size. Such analysis helps in deciding algorithm trade-offs. 
Common pitfalls: Emphasize that metaheuristics require tuning. For example, PSO’s performance
heavily depends on inertia weight  and acceleration constants. Provide pseudo-code or equations
showing the update rules (like the given (6)-(7) for PSO) and explain how to choose parameters (e.g.
9
9
• 
7
w
• 
N d O(Nd)
O(Nd) O(Nd) T O(TNd)
O(TNd) d×d
O(d )3
• 
w
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

Clerc’s constriction factor). For GWO, note the absence of a best-practice rule for coefficients ,  (as
often set to 2 or linearly decreasing). 
By addressing these points, the manuscript will move beyond mere empirical claims to a solid theoretical
framework. 
Experimental Design and Rigor
To bolster credibility, redesign the experiments with statistical rigor:
- Baselines: In addition to SLSQP , include classical benchmarks. For example, Water-filling (optimize rate
only) and  Equal power (for fairness) can serve as extreme baselines. Include at least one multi-objective
solver (NSGA-II) to provide reference Pareto points.
- Metrics: Besides the combined objective, report Communication rate (bps/Hz) and Sensing quality (e.g.
SNR or detection probability) separately. If possible, include a sensing-specific metric like the Cramér–Rao
bound or localization error . Also report computational cost (runtime) and algorithm “stability” (variance of
results).
-  Ablation studies: Vary each algorithm’s key hyperparameter (population size, learning factors, cooling
schedule) and show impact. For example, test PSO with  from 0.4 to 1.2. Show results (maybe in a table).
Also vary problem dimensions: try different numbers of subcarriers (e.g. 10, 20, 50) to study scalability.
- Hyperparameter search: Describe how hyperparameters were chosen (grid search, default values, etc.). If
tuned per algorithm, summarize the search process.
- Reproducibility: Include a checklist (in a footnote or appendix): random seed usage, number of runs (at
least 30 recommended for stats), software versions. 
Tables/Plots:
- Table 2 (below) could list all performance metrics used (mean rate, mean SNR, std. dev., runtime).
- Figures: convergence curves of objective vs. evaluations with shaded confidence bands, boxplots of final
metrics, and Pareto plot (rate vs. SNR) for key algorithms. 
Without these, conclusions are anecdotal. For instance, if GWO only beats others in one random seed case,
it’s not robust. The prior study by Sun et al. ran 20 trials and averaged; we should do at least as many, if
not 50, and perform paired t-tests (or Wilcoxon) to ascertain if differences are significant. 
Writing, Presentation and Clarity
The manuscript’s prose has several issues:
- Avoid AI-like phrasing and vague language. Phrases like “achieves exceptional robustness” or “works as a
black-box solver” are clichés. Be concrete: e.g. “GWO consistently reaches the target rate more reliably”
rather than “exceptional robustness”.
- Improve structure. The “Why GWO excels” bullet list (end of Sec. V) is useful but could be integrated into
the discussion with references. Reorganize subsections so that each experiment’s purpose is clear (e.g.
“Experiment 1: varying CSI speed”, “Experiment 2: communication-priority”).
-  Clarify  ambiguities.  For  instance,  define  “communication-priority”  vs  “sensing-priority”  settings  (these
appear in Fig.2 caption). Spell out abbreviations at first use (e.g. CSI, ISAC). Ensure consistency (the paper
sometimes says “SLSQP” and other times “SFO” without definition).
a α
w
6
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

- Improve figures/tables. Ensure all axes have units, legends are clear , and captions fully describe the
scenario (e.g. channel model, number of runs, CI). The current captions are minimal.
- English grammar: check for subject-verb agreement and remove redundant words. For example, “The
next-generation  of  networks  enable”  should  be  “Next-generation  networks  enable”.  Have  a  native
speaker or professional editor review the text. 
Revision Roadmap (Timeline and Milestones)
Below is a suggested plan for revising the manuscript, with tasks prioritized and estimated effort. The
mermaid diagram provides a Gantt chart of milestones over (for example) a 6-week period.
gantt
    title Peer-Review Revision Plan
    dateFormat  YYYY-MM-DD
    axisFormat  %b %d, %Y
    section Multi-objective Analysis
      Derive KKT/gradient conditions  :done,    2026-04-01, 2d
      Implement Pareto computation    :active,  2026-04-03, 5d
      Plot and analyze Pareto results :         2026-04-08, 4d
    section Channel Modeling
      Select standard models (3GPP, ITU, WINNER) :done, 2026-04-01, 2d
      Implement new channel scenarios           :         2026-04-03, 5d
      Run simulations and compare              :         2026-04-08, 3d
    section Theory & Complexity
      Write convergence proof sketches (PSO, SA):         2026-04-05, 3d
      Derive complexity bounds for each method:         2026-04-08, 2d
    section Experiments & Figures
      Expand baselines and metrics             :         2026-04-10, 4d
      Conduct hyperparameter sweeps/ablation   :         2026-04-14, 3d
      Statistical analysis (t-tests, CI)       :         2026-04-17, 2d
      Create new tables/plots (Pareto, boxplots):        2026-04-19, 3d
    section Writing & Editing
      Rewrite abstract/introduction           :         2026-04-15, 2d
      Revise methodology/related work        :         2026-04-17, 2d
      Proofread for language clarity          :         2026-04-19, 1d
      Final formatting and submit            :         2026-04-20, 1d
Figure: Proposed revision timeline and milestones. Tasks are grouped by theme. For example,  Multi-objective
Analysis must be tackled first to guide new experiments. Overall, around 4–6 weeks of effort is expected.
Collaboration (e.g. co-authors handling different sections) can parallelize some tasks. Key goals are: (i)
10
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

introduce  Pareto  analysis,  (ii)  improve  realism  (channels,  baselines),  (iii)  add  theory  (convergence/
complexity), and (iv) refine writing. 
Additional Tables
Recommended MetricDescription Use Case
Communication Rate
(bps/Hz) Shannon rate Primary comm performance; used
in objective.
Sensing SNR (dB)  or target
detection probability
Sensing quality metric; second
objective.
Energy Efficiency (b/J)Rate per total power consumedUseful if battery or energy is a
concern.
Computation Time (ms)Runtime of algorithm per allocationReal-time feasibility indicator .
Std. Dev. of ObjectivesStatistical spread across runs Variability/robustness measure.
Table 2: Key performance metrics. Each simulation should report the mean and standard deviation of these
metrics over multiple runs, and any unit or formula used should be specified (e.g. bps/Hz for rate).
Proposed ExperimentVariation Purpose
Pareto sweep Vary weight  from 0 to 1 Map the full rate-vs-SNR trade-off curve.
Channel Model
comparison
Use 3GPP UMi, UMa, WINNER-
A1, ITU-PedB
Test performance under different
realistic models.
CSI Dynamics Change Doppler (0–200 km/h),
update rate Evaluate robustness to CSI variability.
Algorithm parameter
sweep e.g. PSO inertia from 0.4 to 1.2Assess sensitivity and choose optimal
settings.
Baseline comparisonAdd NSGA-II, waterfilling, equal
power
Compare with classical methods and
multi-objective EA.
Table 3: Proposed additional experiments. This ensures thorough exploration of conditions and justifies claims
about algorithm performance.
By following this detailed plan and addressing all the above points, the manuscript will be significantly
strengthened for submission to Comsys ’26.
Sources: The analysis above is informed by recent ISAC surveys, standardized channel modeling
references , and optimization literature. Specific examples (e.g. metaheuristic comparisons)
are  drawn  from  [38]  and  [41].  The  recommendations  align  with  best  practices  from  IEEE  Comms  and
INFOCOM workshops (e.g. multi-objective analysis, 3GPP channel models). 
log (1+∑ 2 SINR)n
log (1+10 SNR)
α
1 2
5 9 7 4
2 5
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

Best Readings in Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC) | IEEE Communications Society
https://www.comsoc.org/publications/best-readings/integrated-sensing-and-communication-isac
Sensing-Communication Trade-Off in ISAC
https://www.emergentmind.com/topics/sensing-communication-trade-off
Optimal Power Allocation Based on Metaheuristic Algorithms in Wireless Network
https://www.mdpi.com/2227-7390/10/18/3336
Multi-Objective Optimization for Pareto Frontier Sensitivity Analysis in Power Systems
https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/16/14/5854
Improving the Efficiency of MIMO Simulations in ns-3
https://par .nsf.gov/servlets/purl/10466304
Convergence and Stability Analysis of Particle Swarm Optimization Using The Fixed Point Method |
International Journal of Mathematical Modelling & Computations 
https://oiccpress.com/ijm2c/article/view/16910
lucris.lub.lu.se
https://lucris.lub.lu.se/ws/files/43543817/1858740.pdf
Integrated Sensing and Communication: Enabling Techniques, Applications, Tools and Datasets,
Standardization, and Future Directions | NIST
https://www.nist.gov/publications/integrated-sensing-and-communication-enabling-techniques-applications-tools-and
1
2
3 6 8
4
5
7
9
10
11